Fix #2746 and Fix part of #1723: Update Onboarding Instructions and Bazel Documentation (#5723)
oppia/oppia-android: wiki/Bazel-User-Guide.md

   ```
This will build, install and launch the app on your device.

**On SDK 30 and newer, run**:
   ```
   bazel build //:oppia_dev
   ```
followed by:
   ```
   adb install bazel-bin/oppia_dev_binary.apk  
   ```
* Starting from Sdk 30, incremental builds, like those executed using `bazel mobile-install`, are no longer permitted, necessitating the use of two separate commands.

If everything is working, you should see output like the following:

```
Target //:oppia_dev up-to-date:
  bazel-bin/oppia_dev.aab
INFO: Elapsed time: ...
INFO: 1 process...
INFO: Build completed successfully, ...
```

Note also that the ``oppia_dev.aab`` under the ``bazel-bin`` directory of your local copy of Oppia Android should be a fully functioning development version of the app that can be installed using bundle-tool. However, it's recommended to deploy Oppia to an emulator or connected device using the `mobile-install` command.

### Running specific module (app) Robolectric tests

```
bazel test //app/...
```

### Running all Robolectric tests (slow)

```
bazel test //...
```

## Concepts and Terminology
**[Workspace](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/WORKSPACE)**

> A workspace is a directory where we add targeted SDK version, all the required dependencies and there required Rules. The directory containing the WORKSPACE file is the root of the main repository, which in our case is the `oppia-android` root directory is the main directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A workspace is a directory where we specify the targeted SDK version, required dependencies, and corresponding Rules. The directory containing the WORKSPACE file is the root of the main repository, which in our case, is the `oppia-android` root directory.
```

Author: Done

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Building the app](#building-the-app)
- [Running Tests](#running-tests)
  - [How to Obtain a Test Target](#how-to-obtain-a-test-target)
  - [Common Flags](#common-flags)
  - [Running multiple test targets](#running-multiple-test-targets)
- [Concepts and Terminology](#concepts-and-terminology)

> - [Syncing the Project](#Syncing-the-project)

Reviewer 2: This doesn't seem linkified correctly--please fix.

Author: Fixed.

## Installation

Follow the instructions on the [installation page](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/wiki/Installing-Oppia-Android#install-bazel) to set up Bazel.

### Building the app

The [installation page](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/wiki/Installing-Oppia-Android#install-bazel) provides information on running the project in Android Studio.

You can also run the app from the command line using the commands detailed below.

Using the command line is helpful in instances when you need to build and run some targets outside of Android Studio.

Run the following commands in your terminal. All Bazel commands must be run from the root of the `oppia-android` directory otherwise they will fail.

Note that on the first run, these commands may take 10-20 minutes to complete depending on the performance of your machine. Subsequent runs will be much faster.

**On SDK 29 and below, run**:
   ```
   bazel mobile-install //:oppia_dev_binary
   ```
This will build, install and launch the app on your device.

**On SDK 30 and newer, run**:
   ```
   bazel build //:oppia_dev
   ```
followed by:
   ```
   adb install bazel-bin/oppia_dev_binary.apk  
   ```

> * Starting from Sdk 30, incremental builds, like those executed using `bazel mobile-install`, are no longer permitted, necessitating the use of two separate commands.

Reviewer 2: Another case for `SDK`. Perhaps do a quick search across the wiki to ensure consistency?

Author: Fixed. This is the only occurance found.

With this syntax, Bazel implicitly converts the file path into a target if it matches a test rule in the BUILD file. If the file is not part of a test target in the BUILD file, this command may fail.
**When to use this**: If you are unsure about the exact Bazel target and want a quick way to run a test.

3. Querying for a target
Using the explicit Bazel target (// syntax) is more reliable compared to the file path syntax above. However, in cases such as running the test outside android studio, you may not know the target. In this case, you can use Bazel's `query` command to retrieve the correct test target:
   * Copy the relative path of the test file.
   * Run the following command in your terminal to get the test’s Bazel target: `bazel query relative-path-of-test-file`
   Example
   
   ```shell
   bazel query domain/src/test/java/org/oppia/android/domain/onboarding/AppStartupStateControllerTest.kt
   ```
   * The output will be a Bazel target that starts with //. Copy the target and remove the .kt extension.
   * Use this target in the bazel test command, e.g. `bazel test //domain/src/test/java/org/oppia/android/domain/onboarding:AppStartupStateControllerTest`.

> ### Common Flags

Reviewer 2: Another good flag to add: `--runs_per_test` to test multiple runs: https://bazel.build/reference/command-line-reference#flag--runs_per_test.

Author: Added

`--test_output=all` → Show full test output.
`--cache_test_results=no` → Force re-running tests even if cached.
`--test_filter=ClassName#methodName` → Run specific test cases.

> ### Running multiple test targets

Reviewer 2: Another example to add: you can append multiple test targets to the same line, e.g.:

```sh
bazel test -- //path/to/target/OneTest //path/to/target/TwoTest
```

Author: Added

To run all the test targets in the app module:

```
bazel test //app/...
```

To run all the test targets in the project (note that this would be extremely slow and is not recommended):

```
bazel test //...
```

## Concepts and Terminology
**[Workspace](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/WORKSPACE)**

A workspace is a directory where we specify the targeted SDK version, required dependencies, and corresponding Rules. The directory containing the WORKSPACE file is the root of the main repository, which in our case, is the `oppia-android` root directory.
**[Packages](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/tree/develop/app)**

A package is defined as a directory containing a file named BUILD or BUILD.bazel.

**[Binary rules](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/BUILD.bazel#L3)**

A rule specifies the relationship between inputs and outputs, and the steps to build the outputs.
In Android, rules are defined using `android_binary`. Android rules for testing are `android_instrumentation_test` and `android_local_test`.

> **[BUILD files](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/app/BUILD.bazel)**

Reviewer 2: Please permalink to this & the WORKSPACE files, too. Even these files aren't permanent and will probably disappear one day (app's eventually with modularization maturity and WORKSPACE when we migrate to Bazel 8.x).

Author: Done

Example of Dependencies
1. [srcs dependencies](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L617)
2. [deps dependencies](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L622)

**[Loading an extension](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L13)**

Bazel extensions are files ending in .bzl. Use the load statement to import a symbol from an extension.

```
load("@io_bazel_rules_kotlin//kotlin:android.bzl", "kt_android_library")
```
Here, we are loading `android.bzl` and we are going to use it with a symbol name `kt_android_library`.
Arguments to the load function must be string literals. load statements must appear at top-level in the file.

**[Visibility of a file target](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L621)**

With the example from our codebase, target `app` whose visibility is public. 

 - `visibility = ["//visibility:public"],` - Anyone can use this target.
 - `"//visibility:private"` - Only targets in this package can use this target.

> **[Testing](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L719)**

Reviewer 2: Can we update this to point to an oppia_android_test now that app_test was removed? I missed it in my PR since there wasn't an easy way to find this reference.

Author: Done

when we want to run test cases on Bazel build environment, a test target needs to be set up correctly:

```bazel
load("//:oppia_android_test.bzl", "oppia_android_test")

oppia_android_test(
    name = "MathExpressionInteractionsViewTest",
    srcs = [
        "MathExpressionInteractionsViewTest.kt",
        "//app:data_binder_mapper_impl"
    ],
    custom_package = "org.oppia.android.app.test",
    test_manifest = "//app:test_manifest",
    enable_data_binding = True,
    test_class = "org.oppia.android.app.customview.interaction.MathExpressionInteractionsViewTest",
    deps = [
      ...
    ],
)
```

The above assumes that the corresponding test requires resources. If it doesn't, the definition can be a bit simpler:

```bazel
load("//:oppia_android_test.bzl", "oppia_android_test")

oppia_android_test(
    name = "MathExpressionAccessibilityUtilTest",
    srcs = ["MathExpressionAccessibilityUtilTest.kt"],
    custom_package = "org.oppia.android.app.utility.math",
    test_class = "org.oppia.android.app.utility.math.MathExpressionAccessibilityUtilTest",
    test_manifest = "//app:test_manifest",
    deps = [
      ...

>     ],

Reviewer 2: Can we make sure the order here is consistent between this block and the one above? Also, they should follow whatever buildifier enforces.

Author: Done

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Building the app](#building-the-app)
- [Running Tests](#running-tests)
  - [How to Obtain a Test Target](#how-to-obtain-a-test-target)
  - [Common Flags](#common-flags)
  - [Running multiple test targets](#running-multiple-test-targets)
- [Concepts and Terminology](#concepts-and-terminology)
- [Syncing the Project](#syncing-the-project)

## Overview

> Bazel is an open-source build and test tool similar to Make, Maven, and Gradle. It uses a human-readable, high-level build language.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bazel is an open-source build and test tool similar to Make, Maven, and Gradle. It uses a human-readable, high-level build language. Oppia Android uses Bazel for its fast, scalable builds and consistent results across different environments, making it ideal for large projects like Oppia.
```

Author: Done

## Running Tests

The bazel test command is used to build and run tests in a Bazel workspace. It ensures that the specified test targets are built and executed in a sandboxed environment for reproducibility.

**Syntax**

```shell
bazel test //path/to:target
```

### How to Obtain a Test Target
A test target in Bazel refers to a specific testable entity defined in a BUILD file. It represents a test rule, such as `java_test` or `android_test`, that Bazel can build and execute.

To ensure you always use the correct test target, follow one of these steps:
1. If the test file is open in Android Studio:
   * Right-click to open the context menu and select **Copy BUILD target string** as shown.
     
     ![Screenshot 2025-03-18 at 22 30 22](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/286ebcb6-4f4e-4055-b6f0-4c070b039375)
   
   * Paste the target to the bazel test command, e.g. `bazel test //domain/src/test/java/org/oppia/android/domain/onboarding:AppStartupStateControllerTest`

2. If the test file is open in Android Studio, but **Copy BUILD target string** is not available in the context menu:

> Sometimes the **Copy BUILD target string** is not available in the context menu either due to sync issues or modularization issues. You can still copy the file path, and pass it to the test command.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sometimes, the **Copy BUILD target string** is not available in the context menu either due to sync issues or modularization issues. You can still copy the file path, and pass it to the test command.
```

Author: Done

**[Packages](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/tree/develop/app)**

A package is defined as a directory containing a file named BUILD or BUILD.bazel.

**[Binary rules](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/BUILD.bazel#L3)**

A rule specifies the relationship between inputs and outputs, and the steps to build the outputs.
In Android, rules are defined using `android_binary`. Android rules for testing are `android_instrumentation_test` and `android_local_test`.

**[BUILD files](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/7344270032ac242b1b8987f1b51c8b5aa4f14ce3/app/BUILD.bazel#L3)**

Every package contains a BUILD file. This file is written in Starlark Language. In this Build file for module-level, we generally define `android_library`, `kt_android_library` to build our package files as per the requirement.

**[Dependencies](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/BUILD.bazel#L16)**

> A target A depends upon a target B if B is needed by A at build. `A -> B`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A target A depends upon a target B, if B is needed by A at build. `A -> B`
```
A comma will make it more readable.

Author: Done

```
deps = [ "//app",]
```

> Here, `deps` is used to define the dependencies which is a type of dependencies called `deps dependencies` and it includes the files/directory/target which are dependent. From the above example the dependency is the `app` target which is defined in the [Build file of app package](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L616).

Reviewer 5: Missing a comma.
```suggestion
Here, `deps` is used to define the dependencies which is a type of dependencies called `deps dependencies` and it includes the files/directory/target which are dependent. From the above example, the dependency is the `app` target which is defined in the [Build file of app package](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L616).
```

Author: Done

Example of Dependencies
1. [srcs dependencies](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L617)
2. [deps dependencies](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L622)

**[Loading an extension](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L13)**

Bazel extensions are files ending in .bzl. Use the load statement to import a symbol from an extension.

```
load("@io_bazel_rules_kotlin//kotlin:android.bzl", "kt_android_library")
```
Here, we are loading `android.bzl` and we are going to use it with a symbol name `kt_android_library`.

> Arguments to the load function must be string literals. load statements must appear at top-level in the file.

Reviewer 5: load should start with a capital letter (Load).

> Arguments to the load function must be string literals. load statements must appear at top-level in the file.

Reviewer 5: 'load' should start with capital letter.
```suggestion
Arguments to the load function must be string literals. Load statements must appear at top-level in the file.
```

Author: Done

**[Visibility of a file target](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/ba8d914480251e4a8543feb63a93b6c91e0a5a2f/app/BUILD.bazel#L621)**

With the example from our codebase, target `app` whose visibility is public. 

 - `visibility = ["//visibility:public"],` - Anyone can use this target.
 - `"//visibility:private"` - Only targets in this package can use this target.

**[Testing](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/7344270032ac242b1b8987f1b51c8b5aa4f14ce3/app/src/sharedTest/java/org/oppia/android/app/player/exploration/BUILD.bazel#L7)**

> when we want to run test cases on Bazel build environment, a test target needs to be set up correctly:

Reviewer 5: Sentence should start with capital letter.
```suggestion
When we want to run test cases on Bazel build environment, a test target needs to be set up correctly:
```

Author: Done

  - `aar_libraries` is the location of the plugin's JAR cache. This helps provide a more robust code navigation experience, but with the possibility of missing changes made by Bazel outside of the IDE view.

The `.idea` directory contains project-specific settings files managed by IntelliJ. IntelliJ reads XML files in this directory to set up the Project Structure: project, modules, libraries, SDKs, facets.

### Syncing (and Partial Syncing) the Bazel Plugin in Android Studio
When you make certain changes to your project files, you need to sync your project with Bazel to pick up those changes. For example:
* Changing a BUILD file, like adding a new target, or adding dependencies and sources to a target.
* Changing generated output files required to resolve source code, like annotation processor outputs such as AutoValue-generated classes.

You can sync with Bazel in two ways:
* From your IDE’s menu, click **Bazel > Sync > Sync Project with BUILD files.**
* From the toolbar, click the **Sync Project with BUILD files** button.

**Expand Sync to Working Set**

> Your working set is any files your VCS says are dirty, roughly corresponding to something like git status. By default the plugin tries to expand the sync to cover any target in your working set. This ensures these files are refreshed without having to go to the trouble of adding a temporary target to your project view.

Reviewer 5: Missing a comma.
```suggestion
Your working set is any files your VCS says are dirty, roughly corresponding to something like git status. By default, the plugin tries to expand the sync to cover any target in your working set. This ensures these files are refreshed without having to go to the trouble of adding a temporary target to your project view.
```

Author: Done

`--test_output=all` → Show full test output.
`--cache_test_results=no` → Force re-running tests even if cached.
`--test_filter=ClassName#methodName` → Run specific test cases.

> `--runs_per_test=1000` → Specifies number of times to run each test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--runs_per_test=100` → Specifies number of times to run each test. This can be useful for checking whether your test is flaky.
```

I know it's just an example, but I suspect the vast majority of people should probably not even default to 1000 runs for any test, and people have a tendency to copy examples as-is before fulling understanding the nuance behind the choices. :)

I'm also not particularly caring of '100' just that something smaller than '1000' should probably be used, and this seemed like a reasonable number. I originally thought '10' but in reality this should be used for flake detection, and anything less than '100' is not going to give good odds for infrequent flakes (and we do use '1000' for the tests that need to be the most stable, such as the data provider tests, but I tend to run those myself since I have access to some good parallelization for cases like this).

Author: Done
